Add px4 ros2 navigation interface (#2940)
PX4/PX4-user_guide: en/ros2/px4_ros2_navigation_interface.md

> # PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library: Navigation

Reviewer: I wonder if we might want to use "Navigation Control". Navigation on its own could be telemetry? Or Position Control?

:::warning Experimental
At time of writing parts of the PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library is experimental, and hence subject to change.
:::

> The PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library for navigation enables developers to send their position estimates to PX4 directly using ROS 2. The interface provides a layer of abstraction from PX4 and the uORB messaging framework, and introduces a few sanity checks on the requested state estimation updates sent via the interface. These estimates are then fused into the EKF as internal PX4 estimates would.

Reviewer: It doesn't "matter, but I quite like sentence line breaks. They make reviewing and commenting easier.

```suggestion
The PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library for navigation enables developers to send their position estimates to PX4 directly using ROS 2.
The interface provides a layer of abstraction from PX4 and the uORB messaging framework, and introduces a few sanity checks on the requested state estimation updates sent via the interface.
These estimates are then fused into the EKF as internal PX4 estimates would.
```

The library provides two classes `LocalNavigationInterface` and `GlobalNavigationInterface` which both expose a similar `update` method, to either provide a local position update or global position update to PX4, respectively. The `update` method expects a position estimate `struct` (defined below) which developers can populate with their own generated position estimates.

> ## Example and First test

Reviewer: We use first letter capitalization. Minor connecting words can stay lower case.

```suggestion
## Example and First Test
```

:::note
Using multiple instances of the same interface (e.g. local and local) to send estimation updates will stream all update messages to the same topic and result in cross-talk. This should not affect estimate fusion into the EKF, but different measurement sources will become indistinguishable.
:::

For a simple example using the interface, check out the [examples in the `Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib` repository](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/tree/main/examples/cpp/navigation), such as [examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/blob/main/examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation/include/local_navigation.hpp) or [examples/cpp/navigation/global_navigation](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/blob/main/examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation/include/global_navigation.hpp).

> ### Local position updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Local Position Updates
```

   }

   void sendUpdate()
   {
      while (running) { // Potentially make method run as a callback or on a timer
         // Generate local position estimate
         timestamp_sample  = ...
         position_xy = ...
         position_xy_variance = ...
         position_z = ...
         position_z_variance = ...

         // Populate the local position estimate struct
         px4_ros2::LocalPositionEstimate local_position_estimate{};
         local_position_estimate.timestamp_sample = timestamp_sample;
         local_position_estimate.position_xy = position_xy;
         local_position_estimate.position_xy_variance = position_xy_variance;
         local_position_estimate.position_z = position_z;
         local_position_estimate.position_z_variance = position_z_variance;

         // Send estimate to PX4 using the interface
         auto retcode = _local_navigation_interface->update(local_position_estimate);

         // Log return code for debugging
         RCLCPP_DEBUG(get_logger(), "Interface returned with: %s.", px4_ros2::resultToString(retcode));
      }
   }

private:
   std::shared_ptr<px4_ros2::LocalNavigationInterface> _local_navigation_interface;
};
```

> ### Global position updates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Global Position Updates
```

# PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library: Navigation

:::warning Experimental
At time of writing parts of the PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library is experimental, and hence subject to change.
:::

The PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library for navigation enables developers to send their position estimates to PX4 directly using ROS 2.
The interface provides a layer of abstraction from PX4 and the uORB messaging framework, and introduces a few sanity checks on the requested state estimation updates sent via the interface.

> These estimates are then fused into the EKF as internal PX4 estimates would.

Reviewer: I'd probably expand on the use cases here that you envisage - presumably providing position via computer vision, or allowing a mission computer that has a GPS to provide that. 

Also do you need to do anything in PX4 - i.e. turn off other sources?

Reviewer: I guess I'm also thinking about the "parent" library, which is mostly about managing offboard control modes such that they have an identity and can safely coexist. The question being, how this related to that or whether it is fully independent.

## Example and First Test

The following steps are required to get started:

1. Make sure you have a working [ROS 2 setup](../ros/ros2_comm.md), with _px4_msgs_ in the ROS 2 workspace.
2. Clone the repository into the workspace:

   ```sh
   cd $ros_workspace/src
   git clone --recursive https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib
   ```

   :::note
   To ensure compatibility, use the latest _main_ branches for PX4, _px4_msgs_ and the library.
   See also [here](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib#compatibility-with-px4).
   :::

3. Build the workspace:

   ```sh
   cd ..
   colcon build
   source install/setup.bash
   ```

4. In a different shell, start PX4 SITL:

   ```sh
   cd $px4-autopilot
   make px4_sitl gazebo-classic
   ```

   (here we use Gazebo-Classic, but you can use any model or simulator)

5. Run the micro XRCE agent in a new shell (you can keep it running afterward):

   ```sh
   MicroXRCEAgent udp4 -p 8888
   ```

6. Back in the ROS 2 terminal, run one of the examples which periodically sends dummy global position updates:

   ```shell
   ros2 run example_global_navigation_cpp example_global_navigation_cpp

>    ```

Author: Good idea, I'll rephrase a bit so it makes sense

   You should get an output like this showing that the global interface is successfully sending position updates:

   ```sh
   [INFO] [1702030701.836897756] [example_global_navigation_node]: example_global_navigation_node running!
   [DEBUG] [1702030702.837279784] [example_global_navigation_node]: Successfully sent position update to navigation interface.
   [DEBUG] [1702030703.837223884] [example_global_navigation_node]: Successfully sent position update to navigation interface.
   ```

> 7. On the PX4 shell, you can check that PX4 receives global position updates:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
7. In the PX4 shell, you can check that PX4 receives global position updates:
```

# PX4 ROS 2 Navigation Interface

:::warning Experimental
At the time of writing, parts of the PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library are experimental, and hence subject to change.
:::

> The PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library for navigation enables developers to send their position measurements to PX4 directly from ROS 2 applications, such as a VIO system or a map matching system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library](../ros2/px4_ros2_interface_lib.md) navigation interface enables developers to send their position measurements to PX4 directly from ROS 2 applications, such as a VIO system or a map matching system.
```

The interface provides a layer of abstraction from PX4 and the uORB messaging framework, and introduces a few sanity checks on the requested state estimation updates sent via the interface.

> These measurements are then fused into the EKF as internal PX4 measurements would.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These measurements are then fused into the EKF just as though they were internal PX4 measurements.
```

> The library provides two classes, `LocalPositionMeasurementInterface` and `GlobalPositionMeasurementInterface` which both expose a similar `update` method to provide either a local position or global position update to PX4, respectively.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library provides two classes, [`LocalPositionMeasurementInterface`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/classpx4__ros2_1_1LocalPositionMeasurementInterface.html) and [`GlobalPositionMeasurementInterface`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/classpx4__ros2_1_1GlobalPositionMeasurementInterface.html), which both expose a similar `update` method to provide either a local position or global position update to PX4, respectively.
```

> The `update` method expects a position measurement `struct` (defined below) which developers can populate with their own generated position measurements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `update` method expects a position measurement `struct` ([LocalPositionMeasurement](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/structpx4__ros2_1_1LocalPositionMeasurement.html) or [`GlobalPositionMeasurement`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/structpx4__ros2_1_1GlobalPositionMeasurement.html)) which developers can populate with their own generated position measurements.
```

> ## Example and First Test

Reviewer: Just to be consistent in naming

```suggestion
## Installation and First Test
```

The following steps are required to get started:

1. Make sure you have a working [ROS 2 setup](../ros/ros2_comm.md), with [`px4_msgs`](https://github.com/PX4/px4_msgs) in the ROS 2 workspace.
2. Clone the repository into the workspace:

   ```sh
   cd $ros_workspace/src
   git clone --recursive https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib
   ```

   :::note
   To ensure compatibility, use the latest _main_ branches for PX4, _px4_msgs_ and the library.
   See also [here](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib#compatibility-with-px4).
   :::

3. Build the workspace:

   ```sh
   cd ..
   colcon build
   ```

4. In a different shell, start PX4 SITL:

   ```sh
   cd $px4-autopilot
   make px4_sitl gazebo-classic
   ```

   (here we use Gazebo-Classic, but you can use any model or simulator)

5. In yet a different shell, run the micro XRCE agent (you can keep it running afterward):

   ```sh
   MicroXRCEAgent udp4 -p 8888
   ```

> 6. Back in the ROS 2 terminal, source the workspace you just built (in step 3) and run one of the examples which periodically sends dummy global position updates:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
6. Back in the ROS 2 terminal, source the workspace you just built (in step 3) and run the [global_navigation](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/tree/main/examples/cpp/navigation/global_navigation) example which periodically sends dummy global position updates:
```

   ```sh
   source install/setup.bash

>    ros2 run example_global_navigation_cpp example_global_navigation_cpp

Reviewer: Whats going on here? i.e. looks like you ar running it two times example_global_navigation_cpp ? Is this first the package to build and then the executable to run or something?

Author: Good catch! Exactly, the ros2 run syntax is `ros2 run <package_name> <executable_name>`

This command was currently functional, but I think it's bad practice to have the package and executable names the exact same.

I'm going to rename the executable `example_global_navigation_cpp` -> `example_global_navigation` in the implementation and the docs. This will then reflect the command used to run the mode examples.

   ```sh
   [INFO] [1702030701.836897756] [example_global_navigation_node]: example_global_navigation_node running!
   [DEBUG] [1702030702.837279784] [example_global_navigation_node]: Successfully sent position update to navigation interface.
   [DEBUG] [1702030703.837223884] [example_global_navigation_node]: Successfully sent position update to navigation interface.
   ```

7. In the PX4 shell, you can check that PX4 receives global position updates:

   ```sh
   listener aux_global_position
   ```

   The output should look like:

   ```sh
   TOPIC: aux_global_position
   aux_global_position
      timestamp: 46916000 (0.528000 seconds ago)
      timestamp_sample: 46916000 (0 us before timestamp)
      lat: 12.343210
      lon: 23.454320
      alt: 12.40000
      alt_ellipsoid: 0.00000
      delta_alt: 0.00000
      eph: 0.31623
      epv: 0.44721
      terrain_alt: 0.00000
      lat_lon_reset_counter: 0
      alt_reset_counter: 0
      terrain_alt_valid: False
      dead_reckoning: False
   ```

8. Now you are ready to use the navigation interface to send your own position updates.

> ## How to Use the Library

Reviewer: The downside of using first letter of each word capitalization, is that it isn't always clear which letters you can lower case.

```suggestion
## How to use the Library
```

> To send a position measurement, populate a struct with the fields you have measured.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send a position measurement, you populate the position struct with the values you have measured.
```

Then call the interface’s update function with that struct as the argument.

:::note
Using multiple instances of the same interface (e.g. local and local) to send estimation updates will stream all update messages to the same topic and result in cross-talk.
This should not affect measurement fusion into the EKF, but different measurement sources will become indistinguishable.
:::

> For a simple example using the interface, check out the [examples](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/tree/main/examples/cpp/navigation) in the `Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib` repository, such as [examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/blob/main/examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation/include/local_navigation.hpp) or [examples/cpp/navigation/global_navigation](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/blob/main/examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation/include/global_navigation.hpp).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For a basic example of how to use this interface, check out the [examples](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/tree/main/examples/cpp/navigation) in the `Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib` repository, such as [examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/blob/main/examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation/include/local_navigation.hpp) or [examples/cpp/navigation/global_navigation](https://github.com/Auterion/px4-ros2-interface-lib/blob/main/examples/cpp/navigation/local_navigation/include/global_navigation.hpp).
```

# PX4 ROS 2 Navigation Interface

:::warning Experimental
At the time of writing, parts of the PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library are experimental, and hence subject to change.
:::

The [PX4 ROS 2 Interface Library](../ros2/px4_ros2_interface_lib.md) navigation interface enables developers to send their position measurements to PX4 directly from ROS 2 applications, such as a VIO system or a map matching system.
The interface provides a layer of abstraction from PX4 and the uORB messaging framework, and introduces a few sanity checks on the requested state estimation updates sent via the interface.
These measurements are then fused into the EKF just as though they were internal PX4 measurements.

> The library provides two classes, [`LocalPositionMeasurementInterface`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/classpx4__ros2_1_1LocalPositionMeasurementInterface.html) and [`GlobalPositionMeasurementInterface`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/classpx4__ros2_1_1GlobalPositionMeasurementInterface.html), which both expose a similar `update` method to provide either a local position or global position update to PX4, respectively.

Reviewer: FWIW I always link to first instance (at least) of the name of the interface.

### Local Position Updates

First ensure that the PX4 parameter [`EKF2_EV_CTRL`](../advanced_config/parameter_reference.md#EKF2_EV_CTRL) is properly configured to fuse external local measurements, by setting the appropriate bits to `true`:

- `0`: Horizontal position data
- `1`: Vertical position data
- `2`: Velocity data
- `3`: Yaw data

To send a local position measurement to PX4:

1. Create a [`LocalPositionMeasurementInterface`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/classpx4__ros2_1_1LocalPositionMeasurementInterface.html) instance by providing it with: a ROS node, and the pose and velocity reference frames of your measurements.
2. Populate a [`LocalPositionMeasurement`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/structpx4__ros2_1_1LocalPositionMeasurement.html) `struct` with your measurements.

> 3. Pass the `struct` to the `LocalPositionMeasurementInterface` [`update()`](https://auterion.github.io/px4-ros2-interface-lib/classpx4__ros2_1_1LocalPositionMeasurementInterface.html#a6fd180b944710716d418b2cfe1c0c8e3) method.

Reviewer: I've inconsistently updated `update()`. When talking about methods I prefer having `()` after the name because then it is obvious you're talking about a method. Some people don't like this because they think the empty bracket indicates "no arguments".

         Eigen::Vector2d lat_lon = ...
         float horizontal_variance = ...
         float altitude_msl = ...
         float vertical_variance = ...

         // Populate the global position measurement struct [2]
         px4_ros2::GlobalPositionMeasurement global_position_measurement{};
         global_position_measurement.timestamp_sample = timestamp_sample;
         global_position_measurement.lat_lon = lat_lon;
         global_position_measurement.horizontal_variance = horizontal_variance;
         global_position_measurement.altitude_msl = altitude_msl;
         global_position_measurement.vertical_variance = vertical_variance;

         // Send measurement to PX4 using the interface [3]
         try {
            _global_position_measurement_interface->update(global_position_measurement);
         } catch (const px4_ros2::NavigationInterfaceInvalidArgument & e) {
            // Handle exceptions caused by invalid global_position_measurement definition
            RCLCPP_ERROR(get_logger(), "Exception caught: %s", e.what());
         }
      }
   }

private:
   std::shared_ptr<px4_ros2::GlobalPositionMeasurementInterface> _global_position_measurement_interface;
};
```

> ## Multiple Instances of an Interface

Reviewer: FYI I moved this note from the "How to use" intro to its own section. It didn't feel right as a note.
